- AR system for study 1 based on [[Rzayev et al 2020]]  was designed. Their findings suggested that general, non-critical notifications should be _observer-locked_. Observer-locked notifications are aligned with the user's partner's face, in the study these notifications were aligned to be centered across the partner's face or on the top right corner. A general consensus was not reached on which one of the placement was preferred more but the study suggests that the users should be given the option to pick. Centered notifications are somewhat favored as that doesn't break eye-contact and because the user can look at both his partner and read the notification. And the top-right position was found to be perceived as more urgent in comparison to center placed notifications
-
- The simple system for displaying these notifications on Snap Spectacles were developed using Lens Studio and its packages for attaching 2D objects to faces. The users were given the option to cycle through the 2 options, center and top-right. The objects displayed topics from the Cambridge practice questions handbook for IELTS.
-
- The users were asked to tap through and look at the two options and decide which of the positions would be the most ideal way to receive a message or notification whilst having a conversation with another person.The simple system for displaying these notifications on Snap Spectacles were developed using Lens Studio and its packages for attaching 2D objects to faces.
- Though [[Rzayev et al 2020]] suggested center was a better position than top-right for observer-locked notifications, so far majority of the respondents preferred top-right due to the center position obscuring the face of the conversation partner.
- The simple system for displaying these notifications on Snap Spectacles were developed using Lens Studio and its packages for attaching 2D objects to faces.
- I believe that the exploration of whether eye visibility is important for social interactions among PAR users will be a crucial investigation that will make valuable contributions to how glasses are designed in the future. Should these glasses become commonplace, PAR users will interact with each other wearing these glasses. And currently glasses such as Snap Spectacles are of a darker shade resembling fashion sunglasses and they obscure the wearers eyes. And especially if the other person was wearing similar glasses it will be nearly impossible to see each others eyes/ gaze. And studies on mutual gaze
-
-