- Performer vs. Observer: Whose Comfort Level Should We Consider when Examining the Social Acceptability of Input Modalities for Head-Worn Display?
  authors:: [[Fouad Alallah]] [[Ali Neshati]] [[Yumiko Sakamoto]] [[Khalad Hasan]] [[Edward Lank]] [[Andrea Bunt]] [[Pourang Irani]]
  type:: [[Social Acceptability]] 
  published-year:: 2018
  DOI:: [10.1145/3281505.3281541](https://doi.org/10.1145/3281505.3281541) 
  citation:: Fouad Alallah, Ali Neshati, Yumiko Sakamoto, Khalad Hasan, Edward Lank, Andrea Bunt, and Pourang Irani. 2018. Performer vs. observer: whose comfort level should we consider when examining the social acceptability of input modalities for head-worn display? In Proceedings of the 24th ACM Symposium on Virtual Reality Software and Technology (VRST '18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 10, 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1145/3281505.3281541
- [[card]] This paper compares the social acceptability of five different HWD input modalities from the user's perspective and the observer's perspective. The 5 input modalities considered were hand gestures, touch pad, voice commands, head movements and ring interactions. Both studies, user's perspective and spectator's perspective, were carried out in similar public contexts. Users were asked to wear an optical see through HWD and perform the 5 inputs, 5 times each. After each modality, the user's answered a questionnaire about their social comfort based on the location (at home, work, public transport, etc) used and based on the audience present (family, colleagues, strangers, etc). Similarly, the bystander's were asked to observe a user as they used each modality 5 times and answer the same questionnaire in their perspective. The findings suggest that subtle modalities (ring and touchpad) are more acceptable from both perspectives nevertheless the user's found them more acceptable than bystanders. Furthermore, the authors suggested guidelines for HWD designers, they are as follows, SA for the two groups are often different and are modality-based thus different modalities for different contexts may be worth exploring and subtle input modalities are preferred by both groups.
- [[card]] I wonder if the study results would have be more comparable if the age groups were closer. Users were between 18-34 (Technology-savvy) but the observer group was between 18-54 (has a generation that is inherently less accepting of technology due to maybe being unaware)
- [[Picked References]] [2], [3], [4], [10], [17], [21], [27], [35]