- In Situ with Bystanders of Augmented Reality Glasses: Perspectives on Recording and Privacy-Mediating Technologies
  authors:: [[Tamara Denning]] , [[Zakariya Dehlawi]], [[Tadayoshi Kohno]] 
  type:: [[PAR]] [[Social Acceptability]] [[Legal]]
  category:: [[Literature]]  
  published-year:: 2014
  DOI:: [10.1145/2556288.2557352](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2556288.2557352) 
  citation:: Tamara Denning, Zakariya Dehlawi, and Tadayoshi Kohno. 2014. In situ with bystanders of augmented reality glasses: perspectives on recording and privacy-mediating technologies. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '14). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2377–2386. https://doi.org/10.1145/2556288.2557352
- [[card]] This study focuses on the bystanders' perception of being recorded by PAR devices. The researchers had interviewed bystanders in cafés where an AR-glass user was planted. Majority of the participants were indifferent to being recorded owing to the prolonged exposure to CCTVs that has somewhat normalised surveillance to an extent. Participants shared their views about being recorded in terms of several concerns, being recognised through the footage, it being a nuisance, the context in which it would be shared or the recorded bystander's behaviour and place (eg: bathrooms or bedrooms). When questioned about bystanders' preference of consent, some of them were indifferent about receiving such requests from the user and some said consent was important if they were the subject of the recording. With further probing researcher's questioned the participants about record blocking devices, about which the participants showed some interest, not without their reservations about the price, device size, required effort and even its necessity at the current stage where AR devices are not prevalent. Furthermore, the authors give a variety of options for getting spectators' consent/ informing them ("design axes"). They also suggest several design recommendations in-line with the concerns the spectators raised such as making the device location-aware
- [[card]] Notably, many of the bystanders didn't even notice that there was an AR user among them until probed by the researcher. Does that mean we have on a subconscious level become more accepting or rather indifferent towards technology? Or have we after decades of trying to protect our privacy and devices listening in, finally given up?
  _"A discussion of recording preferences and blocking naturally segues to ethical, philosophical, and legal discussions about the ownership of space, the rights of an AR user, and the ownership of content."_
  _"Devices could attempt to gather such context based on co-located individuals, online listings, physical artifacts in the environment, or even the user’s calendar entries."_ [on making location-aware devices]
- #Paratyping is a methodology for collecting in- situ feedback from bystanders via situated experience prototyping. With this technique, participants are recruited to act as proxies for the researchers. Participants carry short surveys and distribute them to bystanders with whom they interact. The surveys, which are returned by mail