- Advantage and Misuse of Vision Augmentation – Exploring User Perceptions and Attitudes using a Zoom Prototype
  authors:: [[Chloe Eghtebas]] , [[Francisco Kiss]], [[Marion Koelle]], [[Paweł Woźniak]] 
  type:: [[PAR]] [[Social Acceptability]] [[Legal]] [[Ethics]] 
  published-year:: 2021
  DOI:: [10.1145/3458709.3458984](https://doi.org/10.1145/3458709.3458984) 
  citation:: Chloe Eghtebas, Francisco Kiss, Marion Koelle, and Paweł Woźniak. 2021. Advantage and Misuse of Vision Augmentation – Exploring User Perceptions and Attitudes using a Zoom Prototype. In Augmented Humans Conference 2021 (AHs'21). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 77–85. https://doi.org/10.1145/3458709.3458984
-
- [[card]] This study explores the ability of user's and bystanders to perceive the new sensor capabilities integrated to PAR devices via an augmented zoom in. This aspect is tested along several themes namely, privacy, ethics and usability. Further, a special focus is given to how the wearer's social status/ role impact the acceptance of the device. Initially, the researchers had interviewed users  about context of use and privacy concerns with the use of augmented zoom. In terms of privacy, the participants suggested control measures such as making distinctions between private and public spaces where private spaces are automatically off-limit and only zooming in on people who have already granted that permission. Then a survey of 100 participants had been conducted to explore more about useful contexts for augmented zoom and perceived permission.
- [[card]] Interestingly, some participants noted that our obliviousness/ unawareness of PAR makes any recording/ staring at be perceived as less of a privacy threat.