- Design Probes Study on User Perceptions of a Smart Glass Concept
  authors:: [[Jonna Häkkilä]], [[Farnaz Vahabpour]], [[Ashley Colley]], [[Jani Väyrynen]], [[Timo Koskela]]
  type:: [[Study Design]] [[Social Acceptability]] 
  published-year:: 2015
  DOI:: [10.1145/2836041.2836064](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2836041.2836064) 
  citation:: Jonna Häkkilä, Farnaz Vahabpour, Ashley Colley, Jani Väyrynen, and Timo Koskela. 2015. Design probes study on user perceptions of a smart glasses concept. In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Multimedia (MUM '15). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 223–233. https://doi.org/10.1145/2836041.2836064
-
- [[card]] This paper outlines the findings from two studies, 1. a user research where the participants were asked to carry a design probe of AR glasses with them and wear them when prompted via SMS. Then the user had to report in their diary, the location they used it in, what they were doing, potential use cases in that context, spectators' reactions and the preferred input modality with context. In this study it was reported that participants preferred this device to a mobile phone due to its ease of access and hands-free use. But, concerns such as, if the device is allowed to be used, clandestine ability to record and look up information, disruptions to real-life interactions due to unprompted information and bystanders assuming that the user may be doing something unethical, were raised. In terms of input, voice command was highly preferred when driving but unfavored when in public contexts. 
  2. In the second study, 4 design concepts for glasses were evaluated by focus groups.