- The Wearer, the Device, and Its Use: Advances in Understanding the Social Acceptability of Wearables
  authors::  [[Norene Kelly]] , [[Stephen Gilbert]]
  type:: [[Social Acceptability]] 
  published-year:: 2018
  DOI:: [10.1177/1541931218621237](https://doi.org/10.1177/1541931218621237) 
  citation:: Kelly, N., & Gilbert, S. B. (2018). The Wearer, the Device, and Its Use: Advances in Understanding the Social Acceptability of Wearables. Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, 62(1), 1027–1031. https://doi.org/10.1177/1541931218621237
-
- [[card]] In this study, the authors use their WEAR measure to evaluate the social acceptability and test their hypotheses of 3 stimuli, 1. smart-phone for the wrist: hypothesised to be preferred when described as a smart watch as opposed to a wrist phone, 2. bluetooth headsets: hypothesised to be more accepted in the colour black as opposed to beige because beige, white, grey accessories are often associated with medical need accessories, reflecting some kind of a disability, 3. a brain wave sensing headband: hypothesised to be more acceptable when presented as a brain-fitness tool than as medical device. Another hypothesis tested in this study is that the wearables will be accepted more by the population from the silicon valley than by those from Midwestern.
  The findings had revealed that 1. that users are indifferent about the description of the device but the size and being attractive matters, 2. user's again were indifferent about the colour but were hesitant to accept them due to preconceived notions about headset-wearers and not wanting to confuse bystanders as to whether the user is paying attention/ talking to them or to the headset; obtrusive, 3. the headband was preferred as a medical equipment but regarded unnecessary as a fitness tool. The authors conclude that devices need to be designed aesthetically, in a subtle size, minimising social confusions. And, medical use devices are more accepted. Furthermore from the 4th hypothesis it is evident that users who have been exposed to wearables more and are aware are more accepting than those that aren't.
-
-