- The WEAR Scale: Developing a Measure of the Social Acceptability of a Wearable Device
  authors:: [[Norene Kelly]] , [[Stephen Gilbert]]
  type:: [[PAR]] 
  published-year:: 2016
  DOI:: [10.1145/2851581.2892331](http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892331) 
  citation:: Norene Kelly and Stephen Gilbert. 2016. The WEAR Scale: Developing a Measure of the Social Acceptability of a Wearable Device. In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA '16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2864–2871. https://doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892331
-
- [[card]] This paper goes through the first three studies in developing a scale for evaluating the acceptability of wearables, WEarable Acceptability Range (WEAR Scale). In the first study the authors formulate items for the scale via interviewing a sample population to identify their impression of social acceptability and the terminology they use to describe them, these items were then reviewed against the literature survey, resulting in the addition of more items and removal of redundant items. In the second study, the formulated items were reviewed by 3 experts who rated their relevance, evaluated the clarity and gave feedback about the items. And in the 3rd study, initially, the expert reviewed and revised scale was presented to few members of the population based on whose feedback the scale was further refined. Following the revision, the resulting scale was presented to 300 participants