- Anticipated User Stereotypes Systematically Affect the Social Acceptability of Mobile Devices
  authors:: [[Valentin Schwind]] [[Niels Henze]]
  type:: [[Social Acceptability]]
  category:: [[Literature]] 
  published-year:: 2020
  DOI:: [10.1145/3419249.3420113](https://doi.org/10.1145/3419249.3420113) 
  citation:: Valentin Schwind and Niels Henze. 2020. Anticipated User Stereotypes Systematically Affect the Social Acceptability of Mobile Devices. In Proceedings of the 11th Nordic Conference on Human-Computer Interaction: Shaping Experiences, Shaping Society (NordiCHI '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 13, 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1145/3419249.3420113
-
- [[card]] In this study the authors build on their previous study and investigating how devices' warmth and competence (SCM factors) affect those devices' social acceptability. The paper follows two studies that utilises 12 predefined devices and 12 predefined social groups. In the first study the participants assess the warmth and competence of 12 devices and the devices' social acceptability (WEAR). The findings suggest that the SCM position of the devices are correlated to the results of the SA tests of the devices. (SA increases when warmth and competence increase). In the second study, initially the participants assess the warmth and competence (W&C) of the 12 social groups, then the W&C of the devices and the probability of each defined group using each of the devices. Findings of the study suggest that the W&C of the devices are resulted by the W&C of its anticipated users. Hence the overall study concludes that the social acceptability of devices are affected by those devices' stereotypical anticipated users. Further, the authors suggest that designers could improve the SA of devices by addressing the devices' W&C.
- [[card]] Might be interesting to have participants speculate which kind of stereotypical social groups would end up using AR Glasses because they're not yet widely used. And then to see if the devices will be perceived differently based on the groups the deices are used by (for eg: would it be more acceptable if the devices are used by factory workers as opposed to being used by lets say influencers?) but also, this perspective of social context and purpose of a device affecting its SA is already addressed sans the SCM angle.
-