- Researchers have extensively investigated the Social Acceptability of the emerging technology, Pervasive Augmented Reality (PAR) and factors that affect said social acceptance. The focus is largely around the more superficial characteristics of the devices such as the build of the device and if it is subtle enough to pass as an everyday accessory [[Eghtebas, Kiss, Koelle & Woźniak 2021]], the input modalities [[Alallah et al 2018]] and if they are inconspicuous and unobtrusive enough to be done in a public place without the user looking too awkward.
  
  [[Eghbali, Väänänen & Jokela 2019]] through his study provides an elaborate list of design recommendations that would make these devices more acceptable in a public context, in line with the theme of making the devices as seamless as possible and minimising the feeling of separation for the user from his surroundings and spectators. Similarly, [[Kelly & Gilbert 2016]] in developing a measure for social acceptability of wearables have formulated a draft of 50 questions that exclusively focus on the outlook of the device.
  
  Evidently, there are more complex factors that affect the social acceptance of devices such as these — the perceived ethical implications of ubiquitous augmented reality technology. These issues do not stem exclusively from the device itself but rather from the capabilities of the technology. An example of participants gravitating towards issues such as these can be seen in the study by [[Eghtebas, Kiss, Koelle & Woźniak 2021]] where upon investigating the design possibilities of the zooming feature for such devices, participants had raised questions about privacy. Thus, leading the researchers to explore the privacy implications of the zoom feature. And even though privacy, misuse and advantage of the technology were taken into consideration, the reason and solution have somehow been focused on the outlook of the device. Another study investigating input modalities that users took in the direction of ethics and privacy was [[Häkkilä, Vahabpour, Colley, Väyrynen & Koskela 2015]] where the research focus was on situationally appropriate input modalities for these devices. [[Denning, Dehlawi & Kohno 2014]] and [[Wolf, Schmidt, Bexheti & Langheinrich 2014]] had specifically explored the privacy implications from the perspective of bystanders and their consent preferences. The privacy issue is actively investigated in terms of lifelogging cameras attached to PAR devices (eg: [[Koelle, Wolf & Boll 2018]], [[Koelle, Ananthanarayan & Boll 2020]], [[Koelle, Wallbaum, Heuten & Boll 2019]] )
  
  This is a step in the right direction of tackling the underlying issues with pervasive technology that may hinder wide social acceptance. But, recording and privacy are not the only concerns with this technology. PAR is and will be made available and functional with a slew of sensors and capabilities. And these capabilities will cause several ethical issues to come to the surface such as the inequality of information distribution, the impact on users’ sense of agency or autonomy, user data exploitation, health & safety issues, etc. ([Regenbrecht, H., Pantidi, N., and Knott, A. (under review) 2023], [Bo Brinkman 2014], [Regenbrecht H., Zwanenburg S. and Langlotz T. 2022], [Medary & Metzinger 2016]). Though there is a growing body of work investigating the ethical implications of PAR, these findings require to be integrated into the social acceptability perspective of PAR technology without stopping that conversation at surface-level concerns of the device appearance.